---
layout:     post
title:      "HTML5 and CSS3 notes"
subtitle:   "Memo of HTML5 and CSS3"
date:       2015-09-16 12:00:00
author:     "tientm"
header-img: "img/HTML5.png"
---

# Overview & Update

# HTML5 Elements

# HTML5 Forms

# CSS3 Styles

## Border Radius

The border-radius property applies rounded corners to borders.

~~~ css
border-radius: <top left> <top right> <bottom right> <bottom left>
~~~

Example:

~~~
.box {
  border-radius: 4px 15px 12px 10px;
}
~~~

You can also specify the border-radius value in percentages.

~~~
.box {
  border-radius: 50%;
}
~~~

## Box Shadow
The box-shadow property specifies a shadow on an element.

~~~
box-shadow: <inset> <offset-x> <offset-y> <blur-radius> <spread-radius> <color>
~~~

- *inset:* Optional. If it is not specified,  it will be set to default value is "drop shadow" rather than "inset shadown".
- *offset-x:* The shadow offset x value, which is going to move the shadow along x-axis to left or right. If offset-x is positive, move to right. Otherwise move to left.
- *offset-y:* The shadow offset y value, which is going to move the shadow along y-axis up or down. If offset-x is positive, move down. Otherwise move up.
- *blur-radius:* Optional. It alters the blur amount of the shadow, causing it to become bigger or lighter with a large value. Default is the size of the element.
- *spread-radius:* Optional. Causes the shadow to shrink or expand.
- *color:* The color of shadow.

~~~
box-shadow: 1px 2px 0 2px #000;
// inset is missing, so it will be set to default is drop shadow. 1px of offset-x, 2px of offset-y, 0px of blur-radius, 2px or spread-radius, #000 for the color of drop shadow.
box-shadow: 1px 2px 2px #000;
// blur-radius is 2px while spread radius is 0.
~~~

Example of using inset:

~~~
box-shadow: inset 1px 2px 2px blue;
// inset is shadow which dropping into inside element
~~~

## Text Shadow
It is really similar to box-shadow but it applies the shadow to text, as the name implies.

~~~
text-shadow: <offset-x> <offset-y> <blur-radius> <color>
~~~

Example:

~~~
h1 {
  text-shadow: 1px 2px 2px blue;
}
~~~

## Box Sizing
Box sizing is used to change default CSS box model, which used to calculate widths and heights of given element.

**Box model:**

- Box model references the design and layout of given HTML elements.
- Each HTML element is a box consisting padding, borders, margins and its content.
- The box model refers to how these properties are calculated in conjuction with one another in order to set the element's dimensions.

**Box model refresher:** not include margins anymore because the margin isn't a part of the width.

Example:

~~~
.box {
	border: 2px solid black;
	margin: 20px;
	padding: 10px;
	width: 300px;
}
// => size of the box: 300 + 20 + 4 = 324
~~~

Three values of box-sizing:

- *content-box:* default value. The width and height are measured by including only the content, but not the border, margin, or padding.
- *padding-box:* include padding, not the border or margin.
- *border-box:* in clude padding, border, not the margin.

Example usage of padding-box:

~~~
.box {
	box-sizing: padding-box;
	border: 2px solid black;
	margin: 20px;
	padding: 10px;
	width: 300px; // included padding already, so the content is reduced to 280px
}
// => size of the box is 300(width) + 4(border) = 304
~~~

Example usage of border-box:

~~~
.box {
	box-sizing: border-box;
	border: 2px solid black;
	margin: 20px;
	padding: 10px;
	width: 300px; // included padding and border already, so the content is reduced to 276px
}
// => size of the box is 300
~~~

## Multiple Backgrounds

CSS3 allows you to apply multiple background on an element. They are stacked in the order in which you specify them.

~~~
.element {
  background-image: url(bg1.jpg), url(bg2.jpg);
  background-position: top left, center right;
  background-repeat: no-repeat, no-repeat;
}
~~~

Shorthand:

~~~
.element {
  background:
    url(bg1.jpg) top left no-repeat,
    url(bg2.jpg) top right no-repeat;
}
~~~

## Color

- RGBa: represents red, green, blue colors and the opacity of the color.
- HSLa: represents the hue, saturation, lightness and opacity of the color.

Example of usage RGBa

~~~
.element {
  color: rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.75);
}
~~~

## Opacity

The opacity is the transparency of an element.

~~~
.element {
  opacity: 0.45; // means 45% opaque
}
~~~

## Gradients

CSS3 provides the ability to create gradients, smooth transitions between two or more colors.

- Linear gradient: need to specify: starting point, ending point, optional stop-color points.
- Radial gradient: creates a gradient that extends from an origin, the center of the element, extending outward in a circular or elliptical shape.

The radial gradient consists of:

- The center
- The ending shape contour and position
- Color stops

Linear Gradient Recipe:

~~~
linear-gradient(<angle> to <side-or-corner>, <color-stop>s);
~~~

- *angle:* optional, is generally a degree (e.g. 45deg).
- *side-or-cornor:* optional, consists two keywords: left or right and top or bottom.
- *color-stop:* consists of a color and an optional stop position, which can be either the percentage or length.
- *angle* and *side-or-corner* instead each others.

Example of usage Linear gradient

~~~
.element {
	background: linear-gradient(to bottom, red, yellow);
	// no angle value
	// to top = 0deg
	// to bottom = 180deg
	// to right = 270deg
	// to left = 90deg
}
~~~

Radial Gradient Recipe:

~~~
radial-gradient(<shape> <size> at <position>, <color-stop>s);
~~~

- *shape* or *size:* optional, specify the shape or size of the gradient
	-	*shape* can be circle or ellipsis (default).
	- *size*  can be a keyword in which "closest-side, closest-cornor, fasthest-side, fasthest-cornor (default)". The size can be a length or percentage.
- *position:* optional, same as the background-position. Default is center.
- *color-stop:* consists of a color and an optional stop position, which can be either the percentage or length.
- *shape* and *size* instead each others.

Example of usage Radial gradient

~~~
.element {
	background: radius-gradient(circle at top left, aqua, blue);
	// Because of shape appearance, size will be omit.
}
~~~

# Fonts & Interactions
